How to remove incense sticks for
good luck all year round? (An Pham's username) Hello Ms. Yen, is it only
on the day of the Kitchen God and
Stove God that we remove incense sticks? Or is it auspicious to remove them on any day? Many people say the more cluttered the incense bowl is, the more sacred and prosperous it is. Is that true? Thank you. Dear fellow practitioners, regarding
this matter of the heart, in the offering ceremony,
we often recite the Three Virtues and Six Deities, offering to the
Buddha, the
Sangha, and all sentient beings. Let me explain the phrase we often recite: The first three virtues are cleanliness, the second is purity, and the third
is adherence to the Dharma. Cleanliness means that all
offerings at the altar
must be thoroughly cleaned. The incense bowl
must also be wiped clean, and the incense sticks must be
removed, leaving only three sticks.
Because the spirits return to partake in the fragrant aroma of flowers and
fruits. The fragrance of the
burned incense sticks should still be fragrant,
not dusty or anything else.
That's the smell of dust. When we light
incense, we are lighting the fragrant part,
the part that rises up,
right?  It's not like we get blessings just by offering
incense with our hearts,
or by leaving the incense
sticks behind. So, first and foremost is
cleanliness. When
we make offerings, we first offer them to the Buddha.
Before eating, do
people offer water to wash their hands for the Buddha?
Do they? Would you ever say that being
dirty like that brings blessings? So,
we know
that removing the incense sticks daily is important.
Before, when I was still living at home, because I did
n't have much time to clean the
altar, people might only clean their altar once every four or five days.
But
because I didn't have time, when I went to
light incense today, I would remove the three old incense sticks from the
previous day and then light the
three new ones.
So, I cleaned it less often. Every day it was
clean, just a quick wipe. Then, when I
went to light incense in the morning,
before lighting the incense, I would
remove the three old horizontal incense sticks
and light the three new ones. So,
on the altar...  There were only three
incense sticks in each incense stick. What's wrong with that? It's clean. Since then, I
've been studying Buddhism and feel peaceful and serene. Before, there were tons of incense sticks, but I still suffered. That was when I was superstitious. I never dared to remove the incense sticks for a whole year. Even when my husband had a stomachache and went to hospitals, they couldn't find a
cure. I had to go to a shaman, and she even burned incense sticks and gold paper money for him to drink. That's how superstitious I was back then. It didn't cure anything, and eventually, my stomach ruptured. I almost died! That was my superstitious period.
When I became a
Buddhist monk, everything was peaceful and there was no superstition. That
kind of superstition leads to delusion.
That's the second virtue: cleanliness. Secondly,
purity of mind. When we offer sacrifices to our ancestors,
we must
start with a grateful heart. When we make offerings, we must start with a heart that remembers who gave us life,
right? That's a pure
heart. Purity of mind means having a
filial heart. Before offering sacrifices to our
ancestors, we should be filial to our living parents,
not have extravagant offerings.  Offering sacrifices
to ancestors is one thing, but
disrespecting living parents is another. Such offerings bring no
blessings whatsoever. Not offering sacrifices to
ancestors is merely filial piety, which will
generate blessings. Filial piety means that if both
parents are deceased, one must
perform the ceremony with a grateful heart, showing gratitude for the
ancestors who gave birth to them. It is because of
ancestors and parents that one exists
today. That is a pure heart,
not just a mother lying in
bed with her child preparing a feast. Is that a
blessing? There is no blessing at all. What kind of mother is sick and
lying in bed? And the child is superstitious,
thinking that offering sacrifices to ancestors will bring blessings,
so they curse their mother. There is no
blessing at all from such a ceremony.
Therefore, to
receive blessings from
ancestors, one must be filial to living parents first. Only then can one receive blessings
from
ancestors. The third thing is to follow the
proper rituals, which means
offering whatever the deceased can eat or use.
We
cannot offer sacrifices to the deceased.  Offering food made from the flesh and blood of living beings is
acceptable, but offering vegetarian food is
even more important
for the deceased. The merit we create for them is crucial. Therefore, we
should make offerings to the
Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) to dedicate the blessings to our ancestors. This
will increase their blessings, and they may even become
deities or ascend to
heaven. They will receive blessings,
and this is not simply
about offering food and then eating it. We
must offer food to the
Three Jewels and dedicate the merit to them for them to receive blessings. If we offer food and
then eat it
without any effort,
even hungry ghosts wouldn't be able to eat
it.
They wouldn't be able to eat the food we
offer if they lack merit. But when
we offer rice, soup, and other things, and
we offer them
to the Three Jewels, they
will be able to eat those things. This is clear, isn't it? If
we offer rice, they can eat it; if
we offer soup, they can eat it. The soup
is due to the merit of the offering.
We give food to them, so our food
will be offered to them. But if
we offer a lot of food without giving
them merit, they won't be able to eat it. There's
a story about a weaver's master.
This weaver was very
respectful of the Three Jewels and made offerings to the monks
during the rainy season retreat. His wife,
however, was stingy and didn't make offerings to the
monks. She even cursed him, saying she hoped that in his
next life he would be the very things he
offered to the monks, that he would have to
eat dirty feces, urine, blood, and pus. And the
clothes he offered to the monks, in his
next life he would wear hot iron. Then, when he
died, he would be blessed to become a god,
while she would become a hungry ghost, having to eat dirty feces,
urine, and always being
naked and miserable. When she came to
this god to ask for food and clothes,
he gave her food, but that food
turned into dirty feces, due to her karma. And when
he gave her clothes, she wore them and her body
turned into hot iron.  It's
incredibly difficult, so before
we want to offer sacrifices to our ancestors,
we should first offer sacrifices to the Three Jewels, dedicating the
blessings to
our ancestors so they can be blessed to be here today to partake in the meal.
Those are the three virtues, Yen La said. Then
comes the six flavors: bitter, sour,
pungent, salty, and sweet. Usually, we
cook a bowl of soup or make a cup of
tea, and it emits the
aromas of all six flavors.
Therefore, we hope that
our ancestors will be well-fed. Yen
usually makes the offerings very simple: a
bowl of rice and a cup of water. The
rest of the offerings should be money,
dedicated to the spirits so they can eat and
drink what we have offered. Because we have
little money, and the offerings aren't that much,
the blessings won't last long. We just
hope our ancestors can eat a bowl of rice and drink a cup of
water, that's good enough, right?
So, Yen talked about how to worship so
that our ancestors receive blessings and we
can enjoy them. Regarding removing incense sticks, it
must be done in a clean and virtuous place, every day,
and correctly.  That way, we'll receive
blessings. And if we don't have time,
we can leave a lot of incense but we can
take it out whenever we like, any day or any time,
with the intention that we clean the
altar so that we can
offer the offerings in a pure way,
okay? Then we'll pray for blessings.
Oh
[music]